readme.adoc, before:

= Magic Wormhole Docker images

Building Docker images of Magic Wormhole backend services and CLI:

* Magic Wormhole Mailbox Server
** Sources https://github.com/magic-wormhole/magic-wormhole-mailbox-server
** Docker hub target: https://hub.docker.com/r/leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox
* Magic Wormhole Transit Relay
** Sources https://github.com/magic-wormhole/magic-wormhole-transit-relay
** Docker hub target: https://hub.docker.com/r/leastauthority/magic-wormhole-relay
* Magic Wormhole Protocol implementation and CLI
** Sources https://github.com/magic-wormhole/magic-wormhole
** Docker hub target: https://hub.docker.com/r/leastauthority/magic-wormhole

The 2 first images are currently used in the magic-wormhole backend operated by https://github.com/LeastAuthority for use by the following products:

* Winden https://winden.app/ (see https://github.com/LeastAuthority/winden)
* Destiny (see https://github.com/LeastAuthority/destiny)

== Basic instructions

=== Select which source versions to use for the build

Update the `requirements.in` file in selected target folder and replace the Git hash used to determine the version:

[source]
----
magic-wormhole-mailbox-server @ https://github.com/magic-wormhole/magic-wormhole-mailbox-server@4b358859ba80de37c3dc0a5f67ec36909fd48234#egg=magic-wormhole-mailbox-server
----

or just give the desired released version:

[source]
----
magic-wormhole==0.12.0
----

Install `pip-tools` and run

[source]
----
pip-compile --generate-hashes requirements.in
----

=== Docker tags used for build results
In order to have an exact reference to the desired version we use

|===
|Variant |Command |Use case

|latest tag reachable from current commit
a|[source]
----
git describe --tags
----
|when building for tags on `main`

|Short git hash of the current commit
a|[source]
----
git rev-parse --short HEAD
----
|when building for non-tag commits on `main`
|===

Tags an commit hashes reference this repository.

== Manual build example

To manually build for a tag like reference, e. g. `0.4.1-11-gac91c3a`.

=== Build Mailbox Service

[source]
----
cd mailbox
----

==== Build Docker image

[source]
----
docker build . -t leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox:0.4.1-11-gac91c3a --build-arg VERSION_TAG=0.4.1-11-gac91c3a
----

==== Push image

With version tag

[source]
----
docker push leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox:0.4.1-11-gac91c3a
----

and latest version

[source]
----
docker tag leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox:0.4.1-11-gac91c3a leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox:latest
docker push leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox:latest
----

=== Build Relay Service or Implementation and CLI

Instructions are similar to the ones above ...

Commit message:

Documnent test with Docker Compose
Signed-off-by: Benoit Donneaux <benoit@leastauthority.com>

readme.adoc, after:

= Magic Wormhole Docker images

Building Docker images of Magic Wormhole backend services and CLI:

* Magic Wormhole Mailbox Server
** Sources https://github.com/magic-wormhole/magic-wormhole-mailbox-server
** Docker hub target: https://hub.docker.com/r/leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox
* Magic Wormhole Transit Relay
** Sources https://github.com/magic-wormhole/magic-wormhole-transit-relay
** Docker hub target: https://hub.docker.com/r/leastauthority/magic-wormhole-relay
* Magic Wormhole Protocol implementation and CLI
** Sources https://github.com/magic-wormhole/magic-wormhole
** Docker hub target: https://hub.docker.com/r/leastauthority/magic-wormhole

The 2 first images are currently used in the magic-wormhole backend operated by https://github.com/LeastAuthority for use by the following products:

* Winden https://winden.app/ (see https://github.com/LeastAuthority/winden)
* Destiny (see https://github.com/LeastAuthority/destiny)

== Integration test

This repository provides Docker Composer files to build and test the images.
The test is basic: send and receive "Hello world!" message through a local wormhole.

[source]
----
# Build the back-end images
docker compose -f docker-compose-back.yml build
# Build the front-end images
docker compose -f docker-compose-front.yml build
# Start the back-end in the background
docker compose -f docker-compose-back.yml up --detach
# Start the front-end in the foreground
docker compose -f docker-compose-front.yml up
# Stop the back-end (or replay the previous step)
docker compose -f docker-compose-back.yml down
----

REM: Use `docker-compose` for older version.


== Basic instructions

=== Select which source versions to use for the build

Update the `requirements.in` file in selected target folder and replace the Git hash used to determine the version:

[source]
----
magic-wormhole-mailbox-server @ https://github.com/magic-wormhole/magic-wormhole-mailbox-server@4b358859ba80de37c3dc0a5f67ec36909fd48234#egg=magic-wormhole-mailbox-server
----

or just give the desired released version:

[source]
----
magic-wormhole==0.12.0
----

Install `pip-tools` and run

[source]
----
pip-compile --generate-hashes requirements.in
----

=== Docker tags used for build results
In order to have an exact reference to the desired version we use

|===
|Variant |Command |Use case

|latest tag reachable from current commit
a|[source]
----
git describe --tags
----
|when building for tags on `main`

|Short git hash of the current commit
a|[source]
----
git rev-parse --short HEAD
----
|when building for non-tag commits on `main`
|===

Tags an commit hashes reference this repository.

== Manual build example

To manually build for a tag like reference, e. g. `0.4.1-11-gac91c3a`.

=== Build Mailbox Service

[source]
----
cd mailbox
----

==== Build Docker image

[source]
----
docker build . -t leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox:0.4.1-11-gac91c3a --build-arg VERSION_TAG=0.4.1-11-gac91c3a
----

==== Push image

With version tag

[source]
----
docker push leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox:0.4.1-11-gac91c3a
----

and latest version

[source]
----
docker tag leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox:0.4.1-11-gac91c3a leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox:latest
docker push leastauthority/magic-wormhole-mailbox:latest
----

=== Build Relay Service or Implementation and CLI

Instructions are similar to the ones above ...
